{:title "Third meet - 27-05-2015"
 :layout :post
 :tags  ["meet"]}


 ### Meet #3

Largely discussion based. A wide range of topics were covered.

#### Transducers

An excellent overview of the forthcoming transducers was provided courtesy of Dan Stone. The advantages of composition and efficiency due to not having to create intermediate collections were covered. Transducers were compared to .Net's Linq. In many ways they are similar - however .Net does have to rely on mutation within the Enumerator whereas Clojure does not.

A great follow up tutorial was provided : http://elbenshira.com/blog/understanding-transducers/

#### Component

We discussed the Component library which was highly recommended for complex systems. There were some concerns raised by the Java devs that it was bringing back the days of Spring with it's massive lists of config settings. However, Component is different due to it config options being native Clojure data structures and there generally being less components in a Clojure system.

#### Macros

Macros are used very rarely. They can cause numerous problems - you cannot apply a macro, it often obscures what is going on. Compojure (a macro based routing library) was compared to Bidi (a data structure based routing library). It was generally felt Bidi was much easier to work with.

#### Editors

Inevitably some of the conversation turned to peoples preferred editors. Generally the group is split between Emacs and Cursive. Even the Emacs users admitted that Cursive is starting to look pretty interesting.

#### Outsourcing

We covered the foibles of working with Clojure in an organisation that heavily leverages outsourcing. Since Clojure is not as prevalant most outsourced work ends up being in Java.




